---
  title: "Self Organisation of Mixed Superconducting States under the Application of a Current"
  presenter: Xaver Brems
---
The intermediate mixed state (IMS) in a superconductor is found between 
complete magnetic flux expulsion (Meissner state) and the penetration of 
an array of supercurrent vortices (mixed state). In Niobium we find, due 
to a rare attractive interaction between vortices, a coincidence of 
these two phases separated on the micron scale. Bitter decoration of 
pure Nb samples shows both laminar and tubular structure of the IMS as 
also seen in the equivalent intermediate state of type-I superconductors 
[1, 2]. An applied current was shown to transform between these 
intermediate state patterns in a type-I superconductor [2]. From Amperes 
law, current can only exist where there is a gradient of vortex density 
and vice versa, the vortices can only move in the presence of a current. 
This results in two orthogonal flows, one of electrons and the other of 
vortices, both confined to the mixed state regions of the material which 
must themselves move with the vortices. We studied the self organisation 
of mixed superconducting states under the application of a current in 
the type-II superconductor Nb using Small Angle Neutron Scattering 
(SANS), offering the possibility to probe both the crystallography of 
the vortex lattice and the morphology of the IMS superstructure. To our 
knowledge this presents the first study of a sample inside the IMS in 
the state of flux flow. We see a rearrangement of isotropic distributed 
domains to stripes orthogonal to the direction of the applied current. 

[1] E. H. Brandt et al., J. Supercond. Nov. Magn. 24, 57â€“67 (2011). 
[2] J. R. Hoberg et al., Phys. Rev. B 78, 104511 (2008). 
