---
  title: "Magnetoelectric coupling in core/shell nanoparticles "
  presenter: Marianna Gerina
---
The aim of the project is to synthesize and characterize core¬@shell nanoparticles (CSNPs) with two different structures having distinct physical properties such as ferrimagnetism properties for the core (ferrites or spinel iron oxides) and piezo/ferroelectric properties for the shell (perovskites). The main motivation is to study the coupling between the two physical phenomena and its dependence on the size of the core and shell thickness and tuning the strength of coupling by cation doping. The first part of the study will consist of the synthesis of the magnetic cores with narrow size distribution using the thermal decomposition method. Magnetic cores will be characterized using different techniques to access structural information (powder X-ray diffraction), organic content (thermogravimetric analysis), morphological aspects (high-resolution transmission electron microscopy and small-angle X-ray scattering) and magnetic properties (Mössbauer spectroscopy and vibrating sample magnetometry). The second part of the project will be focused on the CSNPs synthesis using the seed-mediated thermal decomposition synthesis or solvothermal method. Magnetoelectric (ME) CSNPs will be studied by different characterization methods to investigate relations between their structure, composition and the macroscopic response. To access peculiar magnetic properties of ME CSNPs at the microscopic level, the advanced techniques will be used, such as neutron diffraction and small-angle neutron scattering. The main aim is to understand origin and strength of the ME coupling of prepared CSNPs. On the top, tuning the magnetic and electric properties will be performed by systematical doping of both the spinel or perovskite structure with different cations (Fe<sup>3+</sup>, Ni<sup>2+</sup>,Sr<sup>2+</sup>, Mn<sup>2+</sup>,Zn<sup>2+</sup>). This will allow us to control the strength of ME coupling.  This study has a high potential for the development of new room-temperature magnetoelectric nanomaterial with promising future technological applications.